               Assignment Questions 1
Q1.What is the difference between Compiler and Interpreter
ans:-A Compiler takes a program as a whole. An Interpreter takes single lines of a code. The Compilers generate intermediate machine codes. The Interpreters never generate any intermediate machine codes.


Q2.What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
ans:- he JRE is an abbreviation for Java Runtime Environment. The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine. The JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit that develops applications in Java. Along with JRE, the JDK also consists of various development tools (Java Debugger, JavaDoc, compilers, etc.)

Q3.How many types of memory areas are allocated by JVM?
ans:- 
JVM has five memory locations namely −

Heap − Runtime storage allocation for objects (reference types).
Stack − Storage for local variables and partial results. A stack contains frames and allocates one for each thread. Once a thread gets completed, this frame also gets destroyed. It also plays roles in method invocation and returns.
PC Registers − Program Counter Registers contains the address of an instruction that JVM is currently executing.
Execution Engine − It has a virtual processor, interpreter to interpret bytecode instructions one by one and a JIT, just in time compiler.
Native method stacks − It contains all the native methods used by the application.


Q4.What is JIT compiler?
ans:-
The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the performance of Java™ applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Q5.What are the various access specifiers in Java?
ans-> In java, there are four types of access specifiers and the name of these access specifiers are given below:
public access specifiers
protected access specifiers
default access specifiers
private access specifiers


Q6.What is a compiler in Java?
ans:- A Java compiler is a program that takes the text file work of a developer and compiles it into a platform-independent Java file. Java compilers include the Java Programming Language Compiler (javac), the GNU Compiler for Java (GCJ), the Eclipse Compiler for Java (ECJ) and Jikes.

Q7.Explain the types of variables in Java?
ans:-A variable is assigned with a data type. Variable is a name of memory location. There are three types of variables in java: local, instance and static. There are two types of data types in Java: primitive and non-primitive.

Q8.What are the Datatypes in Java?
ans:- Primitive data types - includes byte , short , int , long , float , double , boolean and char.
Non-primitive data types - such as String , Arrays and Classes 

Q9.What are the identifiers in java?
ans-> Identifiers in Java are a sequence of characters to identify something in a program. They are names given to a class, variable, package, method, or interface and allow the programmer to refer to the specific item from any place in the program.

Q10.Explain the architecture of JVM 
ans:- A Virtual Machine is a software implementation of a physical machine. Java was developed with the concept of WORA (Write Once Run Anywhere), which runs on a VM. The compiler compiles the Java file into a Java .class file, then that .class file is input into the JVM, which loads and executes the class file. Below is a diagram of the Architecture of the JVM.





